# WRIT 320 Week 1

# TWN1 : Technical Writing Definition 
Technical writing is communication that focuses on providing readers with easy-to-understand information. Technical writing can have various purposes, but technical writing must always be informative and help its readers carry out an action. Unlike academic writing, technical writing is writing for a practical purpose. Technical writing requires that the writer clearly states the main idea of the document right off the bat, rather than creating a visual story for the reader. Technical writing format should include a hierarchical structure or a coordinate structure. This formatting makes it easy for readers to find exactly what they are looking for. Technical writing should always contain clear and concise language. Because technical writing can reach many different audiences, it is important to include language that can be understood by all. It is also important for a technical writer to understand different cultural communications and write accordingly. Edward T. Hall and Mildred Reed Hall explain the importance of knowing the obvious and not-so-obvious cultural differences with the [Cultural Iceberg](https://blackboard.olemiss.edu/webapps/blackboard/content/contentWrapper.jsp?content_id=_1211588_1&displayName=Technical+Writing%2C+Introduction&course_id=_49947_1&navItem=content&href=https%3A%2F%2Fcourses.lumenlearning.com%2Folemiss-technicalwriting%2Fchapter%2Finformation-instructions-for-module-1_lecture-2%2F&cR2XilcGYOo=aQv1T9dKE1dqI53sZSlnstJ%2F%2Fqske7WGwzSHhNCrNxo%3D). The Cultural Iceberg shows *Institutional Behavior*, such as government, law, and language on top, and *People Culture* on bottom, which includes intelligence, status, time, space and humor. 

One of the most important aspects of technical writing is **ethics**. Technical writers are explaining to their audiences how to properly performa a task. Technical writers cannot appeal to emotions, instead they must explain valid appeals to reason. Technical writers must explain accurate information and they also must accurately credit their sources. Technical writers must be sensitive to political correctness, generalizations, religious symbols, race and gender roles, and cultural awareness. 
